Scotsman owner JPI Media sold to National World for £10.2m. Regional newspaper publisher JPI Media has been bought for £10.2m by National World, a media takeover vehicle led by industry veteran David Montgomery.

JPI Media, previously known as Johnston Press, is the UK's third largest local news publisher.

Its titles include The Scotsman, The Yorkshire Post, Belfast News Letter, Sheffield Star, Portsmouth News and Lancashire Evening Post.

The takeover is expected to complete on Saturday.

In 2005, The Scotsman newspaper and other titles, including the Edinburgh Evening News and Scotland on Sunday, were bought by Johnston Press in a deal worth £160m.
Stock market float. In a statement, National World said the JPI acquisition would provide a platform for it to "implement its strategy of creating a sustainable local online news publishing model".

JPI is estimated to have posted £85m in revenues and £6m in earnings for the past year.

The regional newspaper group has been seeking a buyer since 2018 and sold The i newspaper to Daily Mail owner DMGT last year for almost £50m.

Mr Montgomery, a former chief executive of the Mirror Group and News of the World editor, has targeted a deal for JPI since National World was launched with a stock market float last year.

National World said it had funded the deal from its cash resources and by issuing £8.4m in loan notes.

It added that it planned to issue further loan notes during January.
Historic publishing brands.
Mr Montgomery, who chairs National World, said: "JPI's historic publishing brands represent the best in journalism and have reliably served their communities and supported local businesses, in some cases for centuries, and never more than in the last year.

"National World will uphold this tradition and implement modern technology to grow the business across a wider footprint based on high quality, unique content."

National World states on its website that its objective is "to create a modern platform for news publishing by implementing a new operating model, powered by the latest technology".

It adds: "National World will jettison legacy systems and archaic industrial practices to create efficient dissemination of news, monetising it by matching content to audience.".
Tesco, Pizza Hut and Superdrug in minimum wage fail.
Tesco, Pizza Hut and Superdrug are among more than a hundred firms "named and shamed" by the government for not paying workers the minimum wage.

Almost 140 companies investigated between 2016 and 2018 failed to pay £6.7m to more than 95,000 workers.

The minimum wage ranges from £4.15 an hour for apprentices, to £8.72 an hour for over-25s.

Tesco, Pizza Hut and Superdrug said the underpayments were historic errors and staff had been swiftly reimbursed.

The city with the world's highest minimum wage
Workers 'sleeping on mattresses' inside factory
'I worked a five-hour shift and got paid nothing'
Ministers said the offending firms - which included hotels, restaurants, car washes and shops - short changed tens of thousands of workers, in what they described as a "completely unacceptable breach of employment law".

Cases included employers taking deductions from wages for uniforms, training or parking fees or failing to raise employees' pay after a birthday which should have moved them into a higher minimum wage bracket.
'Wake-up call'
It is the first time the government has named firms for failing to pay the national minimum wage since 2018, following reforms to the process to make sure only the worst offenders are revealed.

The Business Minister Paul Scully said he was especially disappointed to see big household names on the list but he said it should be a "wake-up call" to bosses.

"It is never acceptable for any employer to short-change their workers, but it is especially disappointing to see huge household names who absolutely should know better on this list," he added.
The UK national minimum wage sets out the least a worker can be paid per hour by law.

As of April 2020, it stood at £8.72 an hour for people aged 25 and older - the government refers to this main rate as the National Living Wage.

There are four minimum wages below this amount for younger workers and apprentices:

The National Minimum Wage for 21 to 24-year-olds - £8.20
For 18 to 20-year-olds - £6.45
For under-18s - £4.55
For apprentices - £4.15
Presentational grey line
TUC general secretary Frances O'Grady said many firms which failed to pay their workers the minimum wage still wouldn't be named.

"The government raised the threshold for naming employers compared with the old scheme, meaning fewer bad bosses are exposed."

Tesco said a technical issue in 2017 meant some workers' pay "inadvertently" fell below the minimum wage and it had reported the issue itself to HMRC.

"In most cases the reimbursement was £10 or less," the supermarket said.

Pizza Hut and Superdrug both said the error was related to a previous uniform policy, which required staff to wear a particular colour trousers and shoes.

"It is important to stress that there was never any intent to underpay our employees," said Pizza Hut. Superdrug said it had changed its policy to make sure the issue did not happen again.

Firms moving into tier four: Devastated and disappointed Thousands of businesses across the UK will now have to close or extend closures as multiple regions join the toughest tier of Covid restrictions from Thursday.

Under tier four rules, non-essential shops, beauty salons and hairdressers must close, and people are limited to meeting in a public outdoor place with their household, or one other person.

We talk to four firms affected.

'It will be devastating for many firms'
William Lees-Jones, managing director of JW Lees, a 192-year-old pub chain in the North West, says the shift will be "devastating" for many firms.

Already in tier three, he was forced to close over Christmas and said this alone "cost each of our pubs £4,000 in food waste alone."

"Before Christmas we restocked all our sites. That cost us a lot so we won't take that gamble again."

"Our concern as you get into January and February is being able to plan any sort of reopening is the challenge."

"Pubs are shut in tier three and they're shut in Tier four," he tells the BBC. "All our pubs remain shut with very limited compensation from the government."

'I'm disappointed, but not surprised'
All Fired Up founder Rosemary Smith
IMAGE COPYRIGHTALL FIRED UP
image captionAll Fired Up founder Rosemary Smith says repeated lockdowns make it really hard to keep operating
Rosemary Smith runs All Fired Up, a pottery cafe in Bournemouth, which will be forced to close again from Thursday as the area enters tier four.

"I'm disappointed but not surprised after seeing the figures on new cases," Ms Smith says.

"The November lockdown was a blow because of all the work we'd done to build the customer base back up.

"I was feeling much more confident in October, but in December, customer numbers were still quite low. Now we're going into 2021 not quite knowing how things will work out."

Ms Smith says the lockdowns have meant food having to be thrown away, not being able to trade and then customers not feeling safe to come back to the cafe once the lockdowns end.

She has created kits for people to take home and paint pottery, then bring pieces back to be fired, but says it is not the same.

"For hospitality as a whole, we have been so badly hit, give us more financial support please," she stressed.

"If business rates come back in March, trade will not be restored enough by then for me to be able to pay them."

'Our takings have almost halved'
Heritage Kitchen co-director Derek Jones
IMAGE COPYRIGHTHERITAGE KITCHEN
image captionHeritage Kitchen co-director Derek Jones says supplying pubs and restaurants is a big part of his business
Heritage Kitchen co-director Derek Jones' firm produces jam, chutneys and relishes that are sold at food markets and in independent artisan food shops, as well as supplying pubs and restaurants across the country.

With all the restaurants and pubs closed during lockdowns in 2020, the business has taken a 30-50% hit in takings.

After launching a website in November, sales went really well over the Christmas period, but he says typically people buy chutneys at Christmas as gifts. In January and February trade is quiet again, until shops and eateries request more stock.

"I am bothered, insofar as it will have a knock-on effect on my business," he tells the BBC.

"[Pubs and restaurants] tend to restock in January to February, so if they're not open the orders won't come through. If we get into March to April and we're still in tier three or four, then it will be a serious concern."

line
Businesses are calling for more support
Analysis by Sarah Corker, Consumer Affairs Correspondent

The stop start nature of restrictions and lockdowns throughout 2020 has already proved fatal for many businesses.

January is usually a slow month for sales, but tier four restrictions mean things just got much, much harder for firms in large swathes of the North of England and the Midlands.

Since the pandemic hit in March, the hospitality, retail and travel sectors have been the worst affected parts of the economy.

After disappointing Boxing Day sales and footfall down 60%, retailers are already struggling to shift a mountain of surplus stock.

Pubs and restaurants have missed out on the lucrative Christmas party season the so-called golden quarter.

Escalating to tier four restrictions is their worst possible start to the new year; another enforced hibernation, no customers or money coming in, but bills still need paying.

There are government grants for firms forced to close of up to £3,000 a month and the furlough scheme has been extended until the end of April, but with most of England now in tiers three and four, businesses are calling for more financial support to help them survive the winter.

line
'We've moved our business online'
Dukki Gifts founders Ian Jones and Heidi Hargreaves
IMAGE COPYRIGHTDUKKI GIFTS
image captionDukki Gifts founders Ian Jones and Heidi Hargreaves adapted their entire business to "regain control"
During the first lockdown in March to May, Heidi Hargreaves found herself in an awkward position.

She had closed her High Street gift shop Dukki Gifts in Nottingham city centre due to lockdown, and now her landlord had decided that he wanted to sell the whole building entirely.

Rather than find new premises, Ms Hargreaves and her business partner Ian Jones decided to run the firm from their living room instead, and built a workshop in the bottom of their garden.

Unlike many other retailers, Dukki Gifts has done well over Christmas, helped by the fact that it manufactures 90% of its products in-house and sources other products and services from local firms.

"We've totally changed and adapted our business, but in the long run it will be better as we've got better control of things, so if we do go into another lockdown, like today, we can still trade," she says.

"Initially we were worried about enough traffic to the website, but we're number one when you search for 'Nottingham gifts' on the internet, and we have a click-and-collect service."

Four-day week means 'I don't waste holidays on chores'
By Simon Read
Business reporter

Published30 December 2020
Share
IT worker Phil
IMAGE COPYRIGHTPHIL/BBC
image captionIT worker Phil, from the Midlands, works a fully paid four-day week
Phil, an IT worker in the Midlands, has worked a four day week for two years.

"I fit my 36 hours into those days, which works very well," he said.

"The biggest bonus is being able to schedule personal chores - those 'must be done on a week-day jobs' for the Friday, so I don't have to waste precious holiday on them."

Many firms are resistant to the idea of a four-day week but the think tank Autonomy, which looks at work-related issues, reckons it would work well.

It claims a reduction in hours would be entirely offset by increases in productivity and price increases, in the best-cases.

Even under the worst-case, a four-day week with no loss of pay would be affordable for most firms once the initial phase of the Covid-19 crisis has passed, it said.

However it warned that some firms in high-labour cost industries could experience cash flow problems if a four day week was implemented too quickly.

"For the large majority of firms, reducing working hours is an entirely realistic goal for the near future," said Will Stronge, director of research at Autonomy, which is campaigning for a shorter working week with no loss of pay.

He said the government should investigate ways of rolling out a four-day week, starting with the public sector.

Challenges
While IT worker Phil has enjoyed working just four days a week, he conceded it has its challenges for workers.

"Days can be long, especially if something crops up that needs me to work until stuff is complete or can be left," he told the BBC.

"Also being on call can be a challenge, but it's nothing that's not fixable."

Man works alone in office at night
IMAGE COPYRIGHTGETTY IMAGES
image captionFour-day weeks can mean late hours - but they save time on the commute home afterwards
The best days are when he works from home, he said. "It means the working day isn't top and tailed with an hour each-way commute."

Pay cut
Alan Rae works in Switzerland for a tech start-up specialising in the Internet of Things.

"I work a four day week, or 80% job as it's called here in Switzerland," he told the BBC.

"Monday-Thursday is super productive, and I spend Friday with my children."

Alan's wife works a similar 50-70% of the working week, "which means we both get to have careers and spend full solo days with our children during the week. Weekends are longer too, which means we have a great work/life balance.

He, however, is technically part time. "The downside is I earn 80% of a 100% salary, but with my wife working too and us both sharing childcare, it works for us."

Profitable
The Autonomy report believes four day working, properly arranged, is possible on full pay. It used profitability statistics drawn from a database of more 50,000 UK firms and simulated best- and worst-case scenarios regarding profit rates under a sudden imposition of a four-day week.

"By providing a hypothetical 'stress test', we can dispel any myths about the affordability of a four-day working week," said Mr Stronge.

"Any policy push will have to be carefully designed, and different strategies would need to be deployed for different industries," he said, adding that if it happened overnight, with no planning, most firms would still remain profitable.

"Covid-19 has thrown the world of work totally up in the air and we must take this opportunity to move away from the outdated and old ways of working," said Joe Ryle, a campaigner with the 4-Day Week Campaign.

"The four-day working week with no reduction in pay is good for the economy, good for workers and good for the environment. It's an idea whose time has come.".
Boeing 737 Max returns to the skies in the US
Published30 December 2020
Share
Related Topics
Ethiopian Airlines crash
Boeing’s 737 MAX has resumed passenger flights in the US.
IMAGE COPYRIGHTGETTY IMAGES
Boeing’s 737 MAX has resumed passenger flights in the US with an American Airlines flight between Miami and New York.

Regulators grounded the plane in March 2019 following two separate deadly crashes within five months.

The Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) lifted the ban last month after Boeing agreed to new safeguards.

American Airlines' flight on Tuesday showed its confidence in the safety of the 737 MAX.

"This is an aircraft that has been more highly scrutinised than any ever before. We're very confident that this aircraft is the safest in the skies," the airline's president Robert Isom said before the flight's departure.

Boeing "played Russian Roulette with people's lives"
Boeing 737 Max returns to skies after safety fears
Boeing 'inappropriately influenced' 737 Max test
European regulator says Boeing's 737 Max is safe
American Airlines currently has 31 737 MAX aircraft, including seven which were delivered after the FAA lifted its safety ban in November.

The airline and aerospace giant Boeing have both sought to reassure the public over the plane’s safety, although polls suggest that might be difficult.

A Reuters/IPSOS poll shows that more than half of passengers are wary of taking the jet when reminded of two fatal crashes that led to the grounding.

Troubled history
Regulators initially pulled the plane from service after two catastrophic crashes killed 346 people.

Lion Air Flight 610 crashed after take-off from Jakarta in October 2018, while Ethiopian Airlines Flight 302 crashed after take-off from Addis Ababa airport in March 2019.


media captionZipporah Kuria's father Joseph Waithaka was one of 157 people killed when a Boeing 737 Max crashed in March 2019
Before the 737 Max was cleared to fly again, Boeing updated flight control software, revised crew procedures and rerouted internal wiring.

Although the FAA has already lifted its ban, the European Union Aviation Safety Agency isn't expected to clear the plane to fly until January.

American Airlines is the third carrier globally to resume flights following Brazilian low-cost carrier Gol Linhas Aereas Inteligentes and Grupo Aeromexico earlier this month.

A smooth return to service could be vital for Boeing, which announced its fourth straight quarterly loss in October, along with deeper job cuts.

The 737 MAX issue saw annual orders drop to their lowest level in two decades.

Boeing’s problems have also been compounded by the Covid-19 pandemic, which has affected both airlines and manufacturers.

The International Air Transport Association predicts global passenger traffic will not return to pre-pandemic levels until 2024.
Snapchat boss: US faces ‘century of competition’
Published30 December 2020
Share
Mr Spiegel said users need to be allowed to express themselves.
IMAGE COPYRIGHTGETTY IMAGES
The US is entering a new era of global competition and the country needs to invest much more in future generations, the boss of Snap has told the BBC.

Evan Spiegel, whose firm includes the Snapchat app, said the US faces a "century of strategic competition" from fast-growing economies like China.

"This is not something we have confronted before," he said.

Mr Spiegel, who was guest editing Radio 4's Today, said the US needed to think long-term to compete in the future.

Mr Spiegel, who launched Snapchat while studying at Stanford University and became one of the world's youngest billionaires at the age of 25, also said he would be "happy" to pay more taxes.

He feels that it was "inevitable" that Silicon Valley tech firms have grown in power due to the advent of the internet, and that it was "reasonable" for there to be increased regulatory scrutiny of tech giants.

Snapchat hit almost 250 million daily users in October.

Snapchat drug safety campaign targets young people
Snapchat hits nearly 250m daily users
Snapchat to pay users $1m a day for viral hits
However he stressed that governments and technology have a symbiotic relationship, and that if tech giants pay more taxes, at least some of that money needs to be put back funding research into developing new technologies like artificial intelligence.

"The history of great nations really tends to be built on huge breakthroughs in technology and a lot of times that technology is founded on government investment," he explained.

"I think it's really easy today in our political system to focus on the failures, rather than these amazing successes.

"Regulation is only one part of a comprehensive technology strategy - the rest of it really has to be oriented around...investment in new technology."

Moon landing
He predicted that within 10 years, the world's largest economies will be China and the US and India. "We're entering this new era of global competition," he said.

That means the US needs to look forward, while learning lessons from the past.

He pointed out that some of the US's really big projects, like putting a man on the moon, were a result of a partnership between private and public companies and organisations.

"Even the internet was really a government-funded research project," he said.

"All of these really tremendous successes that we've had as a country have come as a result of teamwork."

Consequently "it is important for us to think about what our investment priorities are and where the United States is going to invest strategically, to really secure its future."

He is positive about the future despite the challenges.

"We're likely to be on the verge of an American reinvention.

"There is a huge potential to invest in the long-term and realise the potential of all of the extraordinary human capital that has yet to be unlocked.

"With a really clear vision for the future, and teamwork, the future is very bright.".
Brexit: UK sausage makers face EU export ban
By Mary-Ann Russon
Business reporter, BBC News

Published29 December 2020
Share
Related Topics
Brexit
Butchers stand at a counter with raw sausages and other meats
IMAGE COPYRIGHTMINT IMAGES
Raw sausages and other minced meats can no longer be exported to the EU from 1 January, according to new rules.

The guidance is part of the post-Brexit trade deal agreed between the UK and the EU last week.

Meat industry bodies attended a conference call with ministers on Tuesday to seek clarification about the issue.

The British Meat Processors Association said it was one of several issues causing concern.

New EU rules on exports dictate that from 1 January, the following animal products cannot be exported into the EU:

Chilled minced red meat
Chilled meat preparations (for example, raw sausages)
Minced meat (poultry)
Poultry and ratite or game bird mechanically-separated meat
Raw milk from cows infected with Bovine Tuberculosis (TB)
Ungraded eggs
Composite products containing dairy products made from unpasteurised milk (for example, a ready meal topped with unpasteurised cheese)
However, these new rules do not affect exports of raw minced meats to Northern Ireland.

The British Meat Processors Association's (BMPA) chief executive Nick Allen said: “This was just one of the issues that was causing us some concern, but I guess towards the end we sort of knew that wasn't going to come through in the negotiations, the way they were going.

"We hope they will be carrying on talking to the EU and that they will push through and create an export health safety certificate for these products so they can go through.

The BMPA is hoping that more clarity on what businesses need to do will help it to prepare their members ahead of the new year.

Mr Allen added that the call was also to decide the wording on the new export health certificates.

"That wording tells us what we have to comply with and we hope we are not going to hear that there are things we're not expecting to be on there," he said.

'A new opportunity'
Wilfred Emmanuel Jones
IMAGE COPYRIGHTTHE BLACK FARMER
image captionWilfred Emmanuel Jones says the frozen meat sector needs a makeover and British sausages should be exported frozen
Wilfred Emmanuel Jones is a British Devon-based farmer and founder of The Black Farmer line of meat products, including raw sausages.

Since he will no longer be allowed to export fresh sausages to the EU, he has decided to send them frozen instead.

"There's a really big opportunity to do premium frozen sausages for the continent," he explained. "One problem we have with sausages is that in this country at least, anything frozen is seen as down-market, not a premium product."

The UK is the only country in Europe that makes and exports raw sausages. Other countries, as well as the US, all produce pre-cooked sausages, as they have a longer shelf life than raw ones, said Mr Jones.

But rather than give up on British traditions and make pre-cooked sausages, he thinks that sausage makers need to bring in freezing equipment.

"I think we should have a British sausage mark, so if you're going to be selling sausages to any part of the world, it's unique to any of the sausages around the world," he added.

A government spokeswoman said: “We have agreed a deal based on friendly cooperation between sovereign equals, centred on free trade and inspired by our shared history and values.

“It takes the UK completely out of the EU’s customs union and single market – which means businesses should continue their preparations for changes next year.”.
Tesla: Soaring share price creates army of 'Teslanaires'
By Justin Harper
Business reporter, BBC News

Published29 December 2020
Share
Tesla's rocketing share price this year has created an army of millionaires.
IMAGE COPYRIGHTGETTY IMAGES
Tesla's rocketing share price this year has created an army of millionaires - self-named 'Teslanaires'.

Shares in Elon Musk's electric car firm have risen more than 700% during 2020 to become the world's most valuable car company.

But it's been a roller-coaster ride for long-term investors with wild swings since it joined the stock market a decade ago.

For those who have stuck with Tesla, it has been a very wealthy journey.

This month was a milestone for the car company as it joined the S&P 500, an index of the biggest stocks in the US which includes the likes of Apple, Microsoft and Facebook. Tesla shares rocketed and it became one of the top 10 most valued companies on the index.

Tesla stock is now worth more than the combined valuations of General Motors, Ford, Fiat Chrysler Automobiles and Toyota. Yet, Tesla makes just a fraction of the cars of its more established rivals.

Tesla's German factory plan scuppered by snakes
Tech Tent: Is Tesla really worth $500 billion?
Musk: Cheaper Tesla ready 'in about three years'
"Tesla is a very polarising stock. It has its fans, many of whom do own Tesla cars, and its fair share of critics, particularly in the financial community, who say the company's shares are overvalued," said Will Rhind, chief executive at investment firm GraniteShares.

"Investors that bought shares early on, have done very well and some are now millionaires as a result."

Much of Tesla's share price growth has come from its improving car sales, boosted by strong demand from China and hopes of subsidies for electric vehicles. The shift towards electric cars globally has put car companies like Tesla in the sweet spot.

Many investors also believe there is strong growth to come from other parts of Tesla's business including its self-driving software and battery power storage.

Tesla's billionaire Elon Musk.
IMAGE COPYRIGHTGETTY IMAGES
image captionElon Musk took Tesla public in 2010
Overvalued?
Tesla went public in June 2010 at a price of $17 per share. This week, the price stood at more than $650 - and that's even after a 5-for-1 stock split earlier this year that boosted the number of shares in circulation.

Given its rapid share price rise this year, even more surprising given it has come during a global pandemic, Tesla critics say it is overvalued.

In a research note earlier this month, analysts at JPMorgan wrote:"Tesla shares are in our view and by virtually every conventional metric not only overvalued, but dramatically so".

But other investment experts argue not to look at Tesla as just a car company. "Part of the appeal of Tesla for many investors is that it is more than a car company and the success of their batteries will open many revenue streams," said Edward Moya, a senior market analyst at OANDA.

"Think about the role Tesla is playing in the transition from fossil fuels to electric power and storage. In that sense, the question for investors today is how do you value the technology of tomorrow?" added Mr Rhind.

Tesla also sells solar panels and back-up residential power for homes.

"Teslanaires"
There is an army of fans who believe strongly in Tesla and predict the share price to continue rising, based on a bright future for Elon Musk's car firm.

Los Angeles-based engineer Jason DeBolt's first investment in Tesla was 2,500 shares which cost him $19,000. "I first started investing in Tesla in 2013 after purchasing a Tesla Model S and going on a factory tour," he said. Since then, he has been buying more shares, and the 15,000 he now owns are worth around $10m.

Jason DeBolt's has become a millionaire from his Tesla investments.
IMAGE COPYRIGHTJASON DEBOLT
image captionJason DeBolt's has become a millionaire from his Tesla investments.
He agreed it has been a roller-coaster ride as a long-term investor and that "it was very difficult seeing the media attack Elon and Tesla. That was worse for me than the share price decline, which I knew would eventually bounce back."

Mr DeBolt is a member of the Tesla Shareholders Club and regularly chats with other investors via the Facebook group.

New York-based Scott Tisdale began investing in Tesla when he first laid eyes on the Model S back in 2013 and has built up a holding of around 4,000 shares which are currently worth around $2.8m.

Scott Tisdale began investing in Tesla back in 2013.
IMAGE COPYRIGHTSCOTT TISDALE
image captionScott Tisdale began investing in Tesla back in 2013.
"I am not finished investing in them yet because I think their real story is just about to begin and people have been saying the stock is 'overvalued' since before the time I began to buy it," he said.

"As amazing as it is to be included in this growing group of 'Teslanaires', it is almost as satisfying to be able to tell all the naysayers 'I told you so.'"

The road ahead
Experts say it is unlikely Tesla's share price will see growth of more than 700% again next year, limiting the number of new Teslanaires created.

They also point to growing competition from the likes of Apple which has revitalised plans to build an electric car along with Chinese rivals. "Tesla's competition has bigger pockets and can afford to take bigger risk," added OANDA's Mr Moya.

Investment experts also caution about investing in a single stock and recommend funds that spread your money across a number of companies.

Admiral in £508m deal with price comparison firm
Published29 December 2020
Share
Ty Admiral in Cardiff
IMAGE COPYRIGHTADMIRAL
image captionAdmiral has its headquarters in Cardiff, as well as offices in Swansea and Newport
Insurer Admiral Group is selling part of its business, including online portal Confused.com, in a deal valued at £508m.

Price comparison firm RVU will buy its Penguin Portals and Preminen businesses.

Admiral was launched in 1993 selling car insurance over the phone in Cardiff with a team of just 57.

Chief Executive David Stevens said the deal was a positive outcome for customers, employees and shareholders.

Confused.com logo
IMAGE COPYRIGHTGETTY IMAGES
image captionThe website Confused.com is being sold by Admiral
"It is the right choice for the long-term success of the businesses," he said.

Admiral has UK offices in Swansea and Newport and overseas sites in Spain, Italy, France, Canada, the US and India.

Billionaire UK beauty boss continues expansion with US deal
Published29 December 2020
Share
Matthew Moulding
IMAGE COPYRIGHTTHG HOLDINGS
image captionMatthew Moulding's Hut Group runs more than 100 websites
Billionaire entrepreneur Matthew Moulding's Hut Group has snapped up online skincare firm Dermstore from US retail giant Target for £259m.

Shares in the company - whose websites include the Lookfantastic beauty products business - soared more than 9% on the news.

Since it floated in September at 500p, its shares have risen more than 50%.

That triggered a massive £1bn payout for the boss, one of the biggest paydays in UK corporate history.

The company has grown rapidly by snapping up skincare and lifestyle brands while also operating online platforms for other brands.

Health and beauty boss in line for £830m payout
Manchester group donates £10m to coronavirus fight
It owns brands such as Glossybox and MyProtein and powers the websites of major businesses, including Honda and Nestle.

It said the purchase of Dermstore would "enhance its beauty strategy by substantially enhancing its relationships with the key global beauty brands".

"A key driver behind the decision to list THG on the London Stock Exchange just over three months ago was to enable the group to make major global investments," said Mr Moulding.

Nutrition
The Hut Group also added UK nutrition product suppliers Claremont Ingredients and David Berryman to its portfolio on Tuesday for £59.5m.

Claremont Ingredients operates a flavour manufacturing and development laboratory for sports nutrition and beverages, while the David Berryman business supplies and develops fruit-based ingredients.

Both companies had been suppliers for the Hut Group and the company said it bought them to support its commitment "to investing in and building best-in-class product innovation and manufacturing facilities".

Mr Moulding founded the Manchester-based business in 2004 selling CDs.

It now runs more than 100 websites and sells a range of consumer goods, from cosmetics to protein supplements.

In addition to his £1bn in shares payout, Mr Moulding is paid a basic salary of £750,000 a year, up from the £318,000 he took in 2019.

However, since the flotation, he has committed to donating his salary payments to charity.

Game of Thrones games maker dies 'after poisoning'
By Justin Harper
Business reporter, BBC News

Published28 December 2020
Share
Chinese billionaire Lin Qi died on Christmas Day after being poisoned.
IMAGE COPYRIGHTGETTY IMAGES
A Chinese tycoon who died on Christmas Day was poisoned, Shanghai police say.

Lin Qi, 39, was the chairman and chief executive of games developer Yoozoo, best known for the Game of Thrones: Winter Is Coming strategy game.

The Shanghai police statement pointed to one of Mr Lin's colleagues - identified only by his surname Xu - as the main suspect.

Mr Lin was believed to have a net worth of around 6.8bn yuan (£960m), according to the Hurun China Rich List.

Many employees and ex-employees gathered outside Yoozoo's office on Friday to mourn his death.

Who was Lin Qi?
The businessman was a star of China's lucrative gaming market and had also made a foray into film production.

He founded Yoozoo in 2009 and successfully led the company through a period where the gaming industry saw substantial changes towards mobile gaming.

GoT makers adapt Chinese sci-fi saga for Netflix
China imposes video game curfew for minors
How online gaming has become a social lifeline - BBC Worklife
The company also issued an emotional statement on its official Weibo microblog.

"Goodbye youth," it said, adding, "We will be together, continue to be kind, continue to believe in goodness, and continue the fight against all that is bad."

The post attracted thousands of comments while the topic has been viewed more than 290 million times on Weibo.

Many of the tributes featured calligraphy as Mr Lin was an avid calligrapher along with being a poetry enthusiast.

Yoozoo is well known for its Game of Thrones game.
IMAGE COPYRIGHTGETTY IMAGES
Was he poisoned?
Details are scant but Mr Lin is believed to have been poisoned, based on police statements.

Yoozoo released its own statement, saying Mr Lin had admitted himself to hospital after feeling unwell but was in a stable condition.

Things took a dramatic turn on Friday when the company announced its founder had died.

According to local media reports, the person in custody could be Xu Yao, who heads Yoozoo's movie production arm.

There was also some speculation among local media that Mr Lin had been poisoned via aged pu'er tea, a fermented Chinese drink.

What is Yoozoo?
Apart from its Game of Thrones game, Yoozoo is also the co-publisher of Supercell's smash-hit game Brawl Stars along with China's Tencent Holdings.

The company is also known for its connection with the Chinese sci-fi novel Three-Body Problem as it holds the rights for its film adaptation.

But its expansion into the motion picture business wasn't as successful as the company had hoped and the project to adapt the book into six films by Yoozoo Pictures never took off.

In September, it granted US streaming platform Netflix the right to adapt the sci-fi novel for television.

The book is the first instalment of the trilogy Remembrance of Earth's Past by writer Liu Cixin and has received critical acclaim, counting both former US President Barack Obama and Facebook chief Mark Zuckerberg among its fans.
Tesco: Brexit impact on food prices 'very modest'
Published27 December 2020
Share
Related Topics
Brexit
Shopper in Tesco
IMAGE COPYRIGHTEPA
Any changes to food prices after Brexit are likely to be "very modest indeed" under the deal struck between the UK and the EU, the chairman of Tesco has said.

John Allan told the BBC that it would "hardly be felt in terms of the prices that consumers are paying".

He said the deal was a "good outcome" and far better than no deal.

But he said the main benefit was that it removes a distraction from business and government.

When reports last month suggested that there might not be a post-Brexit trade deal, Mr Allan had warned that food prices could rise between 3% and 5%.

But he told BBC Radio 4's The World This Weekend that the deal agreed this week meant any noticeable changes in food costs for consumers were unlikely.

Brexit 'could see people choose cheddar over brie'
Could Brexit make your food shop more expensive?
Britons told not to stockpile food ahead of January
"The tariffs were the things that were going to generate the price increases," he said.

Prime Minister Boris Johnson has said the deal ensures "tariff-free" trade between the UK and EU.

Mr Allan said: "There'll be a little bit more administration associated with importing and exporting. But in absolute terms, I think that will hardly be felt in terms of the prices the consumers are paying."

He said UK companies would be able to cope with the additional work involved in the customs regime, with the possible exception of some small businesses.

But 70% of small businesses only trading with the EU, and not further afield, many of them may be dealing with customs paperwork for the first time, Mr Allan warned.

If the deal had not been struck, the Tesco chairman had previously suggested Brexit might change what Britons eat, as the prices of imported food such as brie cheese could have risen by up to 40%.

Graph of where food in the UK comes from
But Mr Allan suggested that Brexit would now only have a "marginal effect" on what shoppers put in their trolleys.

The deal should also make it easier for businesses to cope with some of the new customs issues between Great Britain and Northern Ireland.

Mr Allan said he was confident the deal "will not obstruct our ability to keep our NI supermarkets supplied".

"All the detail is not clear, but we were well set up, even if there was no deal, to continue to supply our NI supermarkets," he said. "I think that will be even easier now."

Any change to "intra-Ireland" trade, including agricultural businesses that operate north and south of the border, would be "marginal", he said.

John Allan
IMAGE COPYRIGHTTESCO/PA
image captionJohn Allan was appointed Tesco chairman in March 2015
Mr Allan said he did not see any major advantages to the supermarket industry of any new freedoms as a result leaving the EU, however.

"Certainly Tesco - and I assume our competitors - we're very keen to maintain food standards," he said.

"We won't be seeking food from other countries that have different and potentially lower food standards than us, so I don't think it's going to make any material difference."

He suggested the main benefit to the UK government and business would be the removal of Brexit as "a major distraction" as the country tries to recover from the economic impact of the coronavirus crisis.

"It should enable us to address the challenges and opportunities our economy has got in a much more full-blooded way," Mr Allan said.
