This paper investigates the relation between equity prices and aggregate investment in
major European countries including France, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands and the United
Kingdom. Increasing integration of European financial markets is likely to result in even
stronger correlation between equity prices in different European countries. This process can
also lead to convergence in economic development across European countries if
developments in stock markets influence real economic components, such as investment and
consumption. Indeed, our vector autoregressive models suggest that the positive correlation
between changes equity prices and investment is, in general, significant. Hence, monetary
authorities should monitor reactions of share prices to monetary policy and their
effects on the business cycle. The dramatic increase in stock prices in the 1990s and the following crash beginning in
2000 are evidence of the strong correlation between stock markets across countries. Recent
literature documents the link between stock markets in the USA and the rest of the world. Integration of European
financial markets is likely to result in even stronger correlation between equity prices in
different European countries. This process can also lead to convergence in economic
activities across European countries if developments in stock markets influence real
variables, such as investment and consumption. Consequently, shocks originating in one
European country are likely to affect other economies through the stock market, in addition
to the conventional foreign trade channel. Furthermore, as has been discussed in the
literature, because of the potential impact of the stock market on macroeconomic activity,
equity price movements may be an important determinant of monetary policy.
Correlation between share price and the real economy has been investigated and
confirmed in the case of the US. This research empirically analysed the direct and indirect effects of the US
stock market movements on real consumption and investment. Less work has been done,
however, in examining other countries.
Edison und Sløk pointed out that a ten percent increase in the stock market valuations outside
of sectors such as technology, media, and telecommunication leads to a 2.5 percent increase of
investment in the United Kingdom and 0.2 percent increase in the Netherlands. For Germany
and France, the effect is negative and not significant. Whether these results can be applied
using the national accounts data as well as the broader share index remains an open question,
which this project seeks to address.
The aim of this paper is to investigate the relation between equity prices and aggregate
investment in major European countries. Several econometric approaches are used, including
the Granger causality test and impulse-response function calculated from a vector
autoregressive model (VAR). The results of our VAR models confirm the significant positive
response of investment to changes in equity prices and differing elasticity across countries.
Our empirical estimations are useful for further analyses of the impact of shocks on the
economy such as those in the working package number 6 of this project, and are helpful in
assessing the implications for monetary policy and monitoring business cycles. Furthermore,
they suggest that monetary authorities should monitor the reactions of share prices to
monetary policy and the effects of share prices on business cycles.
The paper is organised as follows. In Section 2 we briefly review the theories of
investment behaviour and comment on the empirical performance of the q theory. The data
and empirical design used in our investigation are described in Section 3. Section 4 presents
empirical estimation and testing results. Section 5 concludes. Appendices A and B describe
in detail all of the data used in our empirical estimation and their properties. The
misspecification tests are described in Appendix C.
The literature on investment is dominated by two theories: the neoclassical theory
and the q theory. The neoclassical investment theory is based on the firm’s
maximisation of the discounted flow of profits. In the presence of a
constant elasticity of production function, and absent adjustment costs and a
possible substitution between capital and other variable inputs, the desired stock of
capital is determined by output and the user cost of capital.
An alternative to the neoclassical investment theory is the q approach The q model
relates investment to the q variable, the ratio of the market value of firms to the replacement
cost of their assets. The model assumes that financial market data contain
valuable information about changing incentives to invest. Thus, an increase in the prospective
returns of firms or a decrease in the market discount rate raise the q ratio and thereby increase
investment. Two major drawbacks of the classical version of the q theory are: first, the
optimal amount of current investment depends only on the current value of average q, which
is not confirmed in empirical analysis. Second, in contrast to the neoclassical theory, the role
of the production function is not clearly specified in the original exposition.
Subsequent to the development of the q theory, Abel and Yoshikawa showed that it
can be integrated into the neoclassical theory of choice by considering marginal valuations
of capital and the optimal rate of investment to be the rate for which q-1 is equal to the
marginal cost of installation. Later Hayashi modified
the q theory by introduction of marginal q (associated with investment in the new capital)
and distinguished it from average q (associated with the existing capital).
He showed that sometimes both qs can be very different and the marginal rather than the
average q is the central determinant of investment.
The q theory of investment has some theoretical advantages over the Jorgenson
neoclassical model. The q theory is robust to the Lucas critique. In fact, the q theory is
forward-looking rather than being based on current and past economic developments because
the market valuation of firms used to compute q variable contains business expectations in the
future and thereby information about changing incentives of the firms to invest. The next
advantage of q theory is that it allows output to be endogenously determined and variable.
Despite its theoretical advantages, the q theory of investment behaviour has not
performed well in empirical analyses, especially with aggregate data. Although most of the
previous studies find that investment is significantly related to q, only a small part of variation
in investment is explained by q, and serial correlation of the unexplained part is common.
Furthermore, other variables that do not belong to the standard q theory – demand variables
and interest rates in particular – appear to affect investment significantly as well. In other
words, q itself is not sufficient to explain investment. To explain the poor empirical performance of the q investment equation, the following
four reasons are often cited in literature: the unobservable marginal q, aggregation problems,
mismeasurement of capital stock, and mispricing on the stock market. Because the marginal q
is unobservable, empirical researchers tend to use the observable average q. Hayashi proved
that the average q is equal to the marginal q only under strict assumptions: that the
production function is linearly homogeneous in capital and labour, the adjustment cost
function is linearly homogeneous in investment and capital, and the real price of investment
goods, real wages, and interest rates are exogenous to the firm. A possible reason for the poor performance of the q investment equation may lie in
inconsistencies between the investment behaviour of individual firms and alternative
aggregate representations. In general, capital markets are not perfect; a
firm's investment decisions depend on its financial condition, such as the availability of
internal financing, access to new debt, equity finance or credit markets. Behr and
Bellgardt document that the larger the firm, the less its investment ratio is influenced by
average q. Not only the fundamental part of share prices, but also the non-fundamentals contain
information that is relevant for investment in real capital. Galeotti and Schianterelli pointed
out in their empirical approach that non-fundamentals are significant explanatory factors for
investment. Morck, Shleifer and Vishny also argued that
share prices always influence investment, regardless of whether they meet their fundamental
value or are just part of a speculative bubble or fad. Share prices are thus more important than
the q variable. Aside from the q theory, movements of share price can play other roles that
influence investment decision, through active signals, financing costs, or market pressure on
managers. The signalling hypothesis assumes that the share index gives managers signals about
business expectations in the economy as a whole. If managers’ expectations are the same as
the stock market signals, the movements in the share price index do not deliver any additional
useful information or signal the need to make investment decisions. In this case, the share
price index provides only passive information reflecting managers’ expectations but not
influencing them. It is an active informant and sends signals that influence managers’
decisions only if their expectations differ from what they observe on the stock markets. The financing hypothesis assumes that the stock market is not completely efficient and
managers use its swings to finance investments at convenient capital cost. Brainard and Tobin
argue managers react to potentially irrational movements in the market by financing
expansion either through new issues, when Q exceeds one, or through mergers and
acquisitions, when Q is less than one. From the finance
perspective, rational managers issue equity when equity is overpriced and issue debt or
finance internally when equity is not overpriced. In our investigations of the dynamics of aggregate equipment investment and total
fixed investment, we use the following variables: real share performance index, real gross
domestic product as a proxy for output, and real long-term interest rates. We use seasonally
adjusted quarterly data between 1980 and 2004. Apart from the long-term interest rates,
all the variables are in logs. In order to reduce the effect of aggregation, we use the broad
share performance index of MSCI. While in some theoretical models net investment is a
dependent variable, the investment variable used in our estimation is gross investment, which
consists of expenditures on capital goods. Since the available measures of depreciation are
often quite arbitrary, the choice of gross investment in most empirical estimations is
dictated by the availability of data. A detailed description of all data is given in
Appendix A. The unit-root test results in Appendix B indicate that all of the series are
integrated of order one, I(1). The VAR model has some practical advantages over a structural model. Above all, the
underlying theoretical framework does not have to be completely specified. This is important
since there is no general agreement on how to specify the structure of aggregate investment
models precisely, as discussed in the previous section. An additional advantage of the VAR
model is that all variables are treated as potentially endogenous, since each is related to its
own lags and the lags of all other variables in the system. Of course, in the VAR model, there
is no identifying structure; therefore the system itself is inapplicable to causal interpretation
of possible links among the variables. For this, we use the results of the Granger causality
test. After estimating the model and doing the Granger causality test, we conduct impulseresponse analyses to represent the change in investment resulting from the innovation in share
index.